recorded spontaneously and a
hundred-percent unscripted in front of a
pile of boxes as we start to unpack and
settle into our new apartment let's
let's just disclose my bias let's just
get this out of the way in case you
think this is gonna be a pro-china video
Pro communist government or promo zombie
no around here this this is this our
third copy of tombstone in this
relationship I had a copy of this book
before we got together you had a copy
you got from the library and now me and
my girlfriend have this copy as a couple
if you don't know this is one of the
kind of groundbreaking works in the
history of documenting disclosing and
discussing the legacy of Mao Zedong and
communism and the number of millions of
people who were killed by it um you know
what let's let's be a little bit before
this book was published people would
talk about those issues but they always
felt uncertain people felt uncomfortable
putting a number when they said millions
had died people felt you know there was
no easy proven resource to invoke or
footnote we could say look these are the
facts you know and this brought together
I mean as you can see it's a huge book
it's even longer in the original Chinese
this brought together a mountain of
research and put together in a form that
was kind of impossible to refute or
quibble with I think a lot of people who
don't read the book it still serves a
kind of psychological function of giving
you a sense of certainty okay the facts
are there if I ever want to consult
exactly how many people starve to death
and what province went at what time has
this quality of documentary evidence
interestingly on a much much smaller
scale there's a similar study in the
history of Cambodia and I remember for
most people they never read it but they
know they fell okay that's you know they
counted the skulls those are the people
who did the research and counted up how
many dead bodies and the you know but no
matter how imperfect feeling that the
math has been done it's been documented
it serves this really important purpose
we're really important purpose in terms
of the the psychology of political
history you might say all right so I am
going to criticize serpent za not from
approach
I have perspective not from a Pro Mao
Zedong perspective I was asked by a few
different viewers in my channel to
comment on this other analyst of Chinese
politics and what I said in writing was
no serpent satay is not someone whom I
can respect either for his opinion or
his research and that that backhanded
statement already discloses internal
with the problem is the guy doesn't do
research you know he is one of these
people who States salacious
attention-grabbing opinions on YouTube
he makes a lot of money doing it we
watched a video of his recently where he
opened with saying forget his wording he
says like I'm not just saying this to
get attention I'm not just saying this
to be to be provocative
of course what he was saying was just to
get attention just to I of course this
was claiming the exact opposite of
reality you know that's what he does he
doesn't do you know the four things I
set out in the name of my main channel
active research in a formed opinion you
know this is not what he's about um and
the other light motif I draw attention
to again again in my channel is the
importance of sympathy as an analytical
tool so he had a video recently in which
he featured himself burning a portrait
of Mao Zedong I guess I'll give the link
below this video and currently that
video has over 200,000 views so I
certainly can't hope to challenge that
by reaching a an audience of equal size
and you know he's reaching that audience
because he's telling people something
they already want to hear I'm gonna tell
you something maybe you don't want to
hear all right even though I am deeply
aware of the atrocities Mao Zedong is
responsible for even though I am aware
of both the features of his ideology and
the failings of his ideology if you want
to understand why Chinese people still
today living in the shadow of those
atrocities put up a portrait of Mao
Zedong on their wall proudly you have to
use sympathy as an analytical tool and I
have the humility to read this kind of
stuff and know all this stuff and be
horrified by this I can remember two
different occasions where I was sitting
with a professor two deaf
professors of Chinese history Chinese
boulders and where we both had tears in
our eyes you know at me and the
professor we didn't weep openly but
we're like this stuff gets emotionally
overwhelming my own family history is
connected to this political estrus and
so forth
so no it's not a purely dry academic
engagement with the fact I can know all
these things and yet have the humility
to recognize that even though this is
the legacy of Mao Zedong it is not the
only legacy of Mao Zedong I am not in a
position to say to people who put his
poster on the wall this is all that Mao
Zedong represents this is the only thing
it represents and this is what it must
mean to you if you are familiar with the
history of any of the former British
colonies so pleased that were colonized
by Britain and then we're liberated one
way or another became independent
countries whether through revolution or
devolution as the history would be if
you go to those countries you'll always
have the strange experience of meeting
elderly people local elderly people
indigenous elderly people who are flying
the flag of the former British Empire or
the British colony and you you can't
just start with these ago they must be
racist they must be white supremacist
they must be fascists or something if
you take the time to talk to them and
sympathize with them and analyse why it
is they're putting up this flag you will
understand why it is they're doing it so
stereotypically in many of those
colonies it may be that they are
disappointed with the corruption of the
new regime that replaced the British it
may be there was a particular civil war
in that country and they were on one
side rather the other you can get to
understand what this symbol means to
them for them as a person who was part
of colonized you know conquered country
that gained its independence and in some
sense they're using a symbol that
challenges that narrative that they're
rejecting the heroic narrative of
Independence that wanting to identify
with something else right and you have
to recognize this flag symbolizing the
British Empire it doesn't mean to this
person you know what it means to me it
doesn't even mean you know what it may
mean and it's sort of object
two cents if you look it up in an
encyclopedia what does this flag
symbolize well that's not at
significance here and now you have to
have the humility to recognize that in
China you will meet people who are
deeply disappointed with the current
government of Si Jinping who don't like
the direction the Communist Party is
taking now and the way for them to
criticize what the Communist Party is
doing today is to put up the image of
Mao Zedong and if you talk to them and
you you can ask you can say well do you
really want to go back to having people
starving to death they'll say no hate
they'll say no that's not what I'm
thinking of when I put this up when I
put this up when I'm against is the
collusion between huge corporations like
Samsung and the government of China and
Apple and all these foreign corporations
to come here this is only one of many
possible answers but they may tell you
that they are against the profound
corruption of the Communist Party where
it's become a lackey
of Western corporate capital in a
capitalist interests and just making the
rich richer or they may tell you well
yes it's true people starve to death
under Mao Zedong but on the other hand
the people who ruled over us didn't
drive Italian sports cars like
Lamborghinis and Ferraris and now they
do and that they were against that I
attended a political protest against the
Communist Party in Kunming China
publican could make China and everyone
was elderly they were all elderly people
at this protest right and the police /
military were kind of standing back and
observed there was just barely being
tolerated this political protest and the
the protesters didn't hold the signs I
noted there must be some legal reason
with us they they hung a very delicate
like a like fishing fishing line between
the trees and their their political
statements were draped over this fishing
line and then they stood there silently
in the park you know they didn't chant
there was no clip of political
expression to China especially not in
public places like this and you know
they were used
the symbols of traditional communism to
challenge what they saw as the
immorality of or corruption of the
government in the present day all right
it doesn't take a genius to see this it
doesn't take a supreme level of
detachment and compassion to say okay
when I see the portrait of Mao Zedong
this is what it means to me and it may
it may bring up memories you know from
this book that has horrifying
descriptions of terrible things
happening to people for me this may be
associated with oppression in a word but
for someone else it may be associated
with a kind of healthy challenge to the
current political order and a kind of
philosophical challenge to the crass
materialism of the government of China
today because the government of China
today says all they care about is
getting rich and they say well they feel
like socialism and communism and and
chineseness itself the idea of the
mission and mandate of the Chinese
nation going back thousands of years and
looking in the future for interviews
they felt it was about something more
than just money and they want to
challenge that if you just talk to
people if you're just willing to
sympathize with people you're gonna find
out what those things are to give just
one more example so this isn't Stu
I know it's does doesn't sound too
terribly optimistic you know another
thing that the the portrait of Mao
Zedong could could symbolize for them is
just racism is just xenophobia you know
that there are people you can talk to in
China who will complain to you that now
China is full of foreigners or it's full
of other ethnic groups that they're
racist towards or focal towards and then
when they when they put up the image of
Malzone for them personally it means
they want to go back to the more of
xenophobic China only way that life was
when they were kid or when their
grandparents were kids or whatever was
they have some memory of that so it
could just be nationalism in a very
narrow racist even phobic sense but you
can't even assume that it's not like you
can see that at an assumed it if you
know in case you think this is a special
problem with the portrait of Mao Zedong
when I first started going to Taiwan it
was very difficult for me to accept
people putting up one images of the old
woman Deng regime
whoa what are you guys doing aren't you
proud that you finally achieve democracy
and got rid of the woman dang and all
the terrible things associated with the
the corn
dang as a military dictatorship why
would you put up this you know whether
it's a flag or a poster you know an
image of one of the leaders why would
you be celebrating the heritage of the
Kuomintang well I had to get over that
and understand there are really
sophisticated really particular reasons
for this
now look I'm of Jewish heritage in
Taiwan you see the nasty the Nazi
swastika being put up in Taiwan you see
the Japanese World War 2 era flag the
flag of the Japanese Empire that's put
up and it's shocking and if you ask
people why they put it up we're talking
about you know ethnically Chinese people
in Taiwan who are putting up these flags
they'll give you a lot of different
answers but I bet not a single one is
gonna tell you that they put that flag
up because they're anti-semitic they
have their own very peculiar political
reasons for what that flag means to them
and what the causes are supporting now
or what what questions they're they're
trying to ask look guys this does not
mean that politics is a is a kind of
free and boundless garden of neither
right nor wrong it's not politics is an
incredibly dicey and difficult theater
where we're making my new decisions and
distinctions between right and wrong all
the time but we precisely have to move
past the mirror stigmatization of
symbols and say oh you have this
portrait of Mao Zedong on the wall
therefore you support tens of millions
of people being killed move forward to a
sympathetic analytical approach to
politics where you understand that what
this symbol means to this person may be
radically different from what you feel
subjectively as the analyst or even what
might be established as being its
objective meaning in some kind of
historical sense in terms of the sense
of what's written down in an
encyclopedia
[Music]